add submission schema and tools to generate it (#770)
canonical/checkbox: submission-schema/README.md

[helper program](https://github.com/canonical/hexr/blob/main/scripts/download_submissions.py) that downloads a series of submissions from C3.

Follow the [README for that tool](https://github.com/canonical/hexr/blob/main/scripts/README.md) to get started.

You will have to tweak the `LIMIT` parameter to download more sessions.
Also note that at the time of writing, this tool is designed to process the submissions
after downloading and then dispose them. Deleting the `os.remove` calls will
make the submission tarballs stay on the filesystem.

### Unpacking submission.json from the tarballs

Navigate to the directory where the downloaded scripts are located, and extract the json files. For instance

```bash
#!/bin/bash

TARGET_DIR="../jsons"

# Create the directory if it doesn't exist.
mkdir -p "$TARGET_DIR"

# Loop through each .tar.xz file in the current directory.
for file in *.tar.xz
do
  # Get the base name of the file without the extension.
  base_name="$(basename "$file" .tar.xz)"

  # Extract only the submission.json file.
  tar -xvf "$file" --wildcards --no-anchored 'submission.json' -O > "${TARGET_DIR}/${base_name}.json"
done

```

> ### Running genson

Reviewer: Hmm, I would just drop the `genson` instructions entirely: the project has last seen commits in March, has 8 contributors through its time to quicktype's 167. We're not really after performance, but correctness and a long term maintained tool, and quicktype is a familiar choice.

[GenSON](https://github.com/wolverdude/GenSON) is a Python package that can generate the schema out of existing json files.

It's best used from virtual environment.

```bash
python3 -m virtualenv venv
. venv/bin/activate
pip3 install genson
```

With genson installed you can now run the `build_schema.py` program.

```bash
./build_schema.py ../jsons -o ./schema.json
```

### Generating Python loader out of the schema

> As an alternative to `genson`, `quicktype` can be used to generate the schema, as well as Python types using classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

`quicktype` can be used to generate the schema, as well as Python classes representing submission data.
```

Reviewer 2: commit this!

#### Getting quicktype

> 1. Install `nodejs` [using the nodesource.com provided Node.js binary distribution](https://github.com/nodesource/distributions#nodejs).

Reviewer: @kissiel I took the liberty to change these steps in a commit I pushed to the branch directly, was easier explained and tested as correct steps that way.

Basically, `nodejs` from nodesource is really the better way even for this usecase, and the package stays local with this workflow to the directory (no polluting the system with a globally installed package).

2. Install dependencies (`quicktype` and its transitive dependencies are installed under `./submission-schema/node_modules`).

```bash
cd submission-schema
npm install
```

#### Generating schema with Quicktype from input JSON data

```bash
npm run generate-schema-from-input-jsons
```

#### Generating Python class with Quicktype using the existing schema

```bash
npm run generate-python-types-from-schema
```

#### Generating Python class with Quicktype using submissions

> Python classes can be created directly from input JSONs.

Reviewer: I removed here a comment about input JSONs being more "reliable" since I don't think that's really true: it's a moving window of the latest 2K submissions, which is a few weeks worth submissions at best actually (16K submissions in a quarter). We'll aim for reliability by sampling widely enough to support some sensible time range of submission data, and then iterating from there, whilst maintaining compatibility with a known set of submissions.  We probably need a bunch of these representative examples to housed in the repo itself, though not to run into thousands is itself a little bit of a challenge (perhaps a clustering approach of some kind would find us a maximally divergent set of examples?)

```bash
#!/bin/bash

TARGET_DIR="../jsons"

# Create the directory if it doesn't exist.
mkdir -p "$TARGET_DIR"

# Loop through each .tar.xz file in the current directory.
for file in *.tar.xz
do
  # Get the base name of the file without the extension.
  base_name="$(basename "$file" .tar.xz)"

  # Extract only the submission.json file.
  tar -xvf "$file" --wildcards --no-anchored 'submission.json' -O > "${TARGET_DIR}/${base_name}.json"
done

```

### Running genson

[GenSON](https://github.com/wolverdude/GenSON) is a Python package that can generate the schema out of existing json files.

It's best used from virtual environment.

```bash
python3 -m virtualenv venv
. venv/bin/activate
pip3 install genson
```

With genson installed you can now run the `build_schema.py` program.

```bash
./build_schema.py ../jsons -o ./schema.json
```

### Generating Python loader out of the schema

Quicktype can generate a valid Python class parallel to the object described by the generated schema. It can also be used to generate schema, though it's significantly slower than the genson method.

Getting quicktype

```bash
sudo apt install npm  # warning - a lot of packages will be pulled

> sudo sudo npm install -g quicktype

Reviewer: Better than to a dvise globally installing the package would be to have a `package.json` in this directory with an exact quicktype version reference, and a "script" entry with which you then run quicktype (which just does the equivalent of `quicktype --lang json-schema ...` below when you call `npm run json-schema`).

This way you're a) not polluting the OS with the globally installed package and b) you're robust to `quicktype` eventually becoming incompatible with the version of `node` you installed.

You should also state what version of Ubuntu this step has been tested, since `node` and `npm` installed from the Ubuntu archive may or may not be compatible with the package `quicktype`.

Author: My lack of experience using JS as "programs" is showing up. 

The way I understand you suggestion:
* save-exact quicktype
* store it in package.json
* create a "scripts" entry like `"checkbox-json-schema": "quicktype --lang json-schema (...)"`
* update the instruction in doc

Reviewer: Yep, I did all this in a follow-up commit to the branch.

Reviewer: I also switched the installation instructions from Ubuntu archive to nodesource
